So they said, no, that would be it for the day. So we
were just getting ready to rev up our engines. And
we had our engines running the whole time. But when
you're sitting waiting or something, you turn
down the RPMs. And so we were just getting ready to
rev them up and take off. And one lone rocket was
dropped into the LZ. And it hit about . I'd say maybe
five yards from the helicopter on my side. When it
hit, the impact
almost threw me over on top of the co-pilot, which
sits on the left-hand side of the aircraft. And out
of instinct, he took off. And the other, our lead
man, took off. And at the time, we didn't really
know what had happened other than there was a big
bang. I sort of looked down. At a time like that, you
don't really feel that much. I looked down and
noticed my arm was bleeding, and it was bleeding
quite heavily. So I grabbed the pressure point in
my upper right arm, and
the bleeding stopped.
But I couldn't work my right hand. So with my left
hand, I got on the intercom. and asked the crew how
they were. And the crew chief and the gunner down in
the belly said they were OK. And then the co-pilot
said he was OK. We tried to contact the other
helicopter on the radio, and there was no
response. Our radios had been shot out. We had
intercom within the helicopter, but no radio
contact.
copilot took off and in the meantime I was holding
onto my arm trying to keep the bleeding down and
we lost sight of our lead helicopter but the
copilot was losing power in our helicopter and
couldn't get any altitude and we got about maybe a
mile and a half or two miles out of Camp Carroll and
we always called it Charlie Charlie and he started
losing total control I mean we just started
sloshing all over the place like a wounded duck so
he set it down in an open field
and so he went through the procedures right quick,
shutting down the engine, stopping the rotor
blades and everything. And we looked back, and the
lead helicopter had seen us going down, so they
were coming down to pick us up. So we quite hastily
got out and ran to get in the other helicopter. And
all this time, there was really no pain.
I saw blood and all that, and like I said, the crew
chief and the gunner both said that they were okay.
Once we got in the other aircraft, we found out that
I had been hitting the right arm and the right leg.
The crew chief had been hitting both calves, the
left calf and the right calf, and the gunner had
been hitting the right calf. And didn't even know
it until we got in the other airplane. So right away
they ran us, hustled us on down to Dong Ha to Delta
Med and
got us in the first aid down there. And I didn't see
the other two, the crew chief and the gunner, for I
guess it was two days before I saw them again. They
put us aboard C-130 at Dong Ha, flew us down to Phu
Bai, and got into,
I don't remember what the designation of the med
station was down there, but they performed
surgery on me there and took out all but one piece of
shrapnel, which I still have in my leg.
But it was sort of ironic, I guess. I don't know if
that's the right term or anything. But this
happened on a Monday. I think it was, if I'm not
mistaken, it was April the 13th. It was either
April the 13th or May the 13th. And
it was May the 13th.
Monday, and on Friday, I was already scheduled to
meet my wife in Hawaii for R&R. And
I just, the only thing that passed through my mind
when I got hit was, oh no, there goes my R&R, what am I
gonna do? I wasn't worried about dying at all. I was
just worried about missing my R&R. So, a chaplain
came through, ward
where I was in Fubi and I told him what the situation
was about meeting my wife in Hawaii and all this and
I asked him to contact her and let her know that I had
been wounded but I was okay and that I wouldn't be
able to meet her in Hawaii so he said okay he'd take
care of it and So on Tuesday, the next day, they
decided that I could go ahead and be transferred
back out to the ship where we were operating off of,
and let the flight surgeon, and they had a
tremendous medical staff on board ship too, and
let them take care of me. Got back out to the ship,
and I talked to the flight surgeon. He checked me
over and checked all my stitches and everything,
and he said he thought it'd be okay, if I felt like
it, to go ahead and go to Hawaii. So I said, okay,
we'll go for it. So I figured that my wife wouldn't
be there, but I'd be there, and I'd call her as soon
as I got there, and she could be there the next day,
so we'd miss one day out of a five-day R&R. So when I
got there, I wasn't even looking for her. But she
was there because she was never contacted that I
was not going to be there. So we had a pretty good
R&R. But it was quite strange because at the time,
she was living with her parents. And this was in
May. And she had given birth to our first daughter
in February.
So her daughter was three months old, and she was
too young to come with her. So it was just she and I.
And as it came to pass, I didn't see my daughter
until November when I got home, and she was nine
months old at the time. I saw some pictures of her,
but I didn't see my daughter until she was nine
months old.
With the wound and everything, I was a little
incapacitated. I wasn't quite able to perform up
to expectations. But when there's a will, there's
a way. So we had a pretty good R&R, five days in
Hawaii. You can't argue with that. And then after
the R&R, I went back to Hawaii. when I got back into
Nam I flew into Da Nang and at the time our squadron
was in the process of changing ships and so they had
offloaded back into Phu Bai for about three days
prior they offloaded And then three days later,
they were supposed to load back onto the other
ship. And so the flight surgeon said that it would
be cleaner surroundings for me to stay in Da Nang.
So I stayed in Da Nang during all this and went back
aboard ship after everything was all situated and
everything. And I was unable to fly for 89 days with
my wound and wounds. And I don't remember exactly
when it was, but it was about six weeks, I guess,
after the wound. I was all set to go down and get an up
chip from the flight surgeon so I could start
flying again. And I woke up in the morning, and I had
a big old pus pocket on my leg where my wound was.
I went down and they lanced it and had to go in and
remove another piece of shrapnel
which had a little bit of flight suit on it and
that's what caused the infection.
So I spent a total of 89 relatively boring days
aboard ship watching movies at night and sitting
in the room listening to tapes and the like during
the day.
It was
quite boring, absolutely. Ship life is boring
anyway, but when you can't get out and do anything,
you know, it's really terrible. Where was this
ship stationed? It was off the coast. I don't know
how far off the coast. I'd say probably about 20 or
25 miles in the Fu Ba Quang tree area. It had a
specific pattern that it would run, but it was
quite close to the coast at all times, except I'd
almost forgotten about this, but during my
convalescent period, the ship had to go back to the
Philippines for some
kind of repairs. I'm not even sure what it was. And
so I stayed on board the ship.
Excuse me. with one other officer and about six
enlisted men from our squadron and went with the
ship to the Philippines and had another what you
might call R&R there.
We had a little bit of work to do on about three of the
helicopters, which the enlisted men took care of.
And the other officer, Captain McAlka, he was a
designated test pilot. And in order for me to go,
they had to designate me as a test pilot too, just to
make it what you might call a legal trip. even
though it didn't do any flying. It doesn't do much
good to be a test pilot when you're grounded anyway
because of wounds. But I think we spent about seven
or eight days in the Philippines, which was sort of
nice, but then again,
unconsequential.
You were in Vietnam during the Tet Offensive. What
did you know about it, and how did it affect you?
Well, at the time, we pretty much called it the way
offensive, since we were
stationed at Phu Bai at the time, which was only,
oh, roughly speaking, I guess 12 to 15 miles south
of Hue. We had a little bit of an inkling about it a
day or two ahead of time that something seemed to be
brewing. And of course Tet being a national
holiday or a period of celebration or whatever.
I'm not sure if it's their New Year's or what, but
anyway it's a time of celebration for the
Vietnamese.
But there seemed to be a little more activity prior
to it than in the past. And everybody was sort of
warned to, well, I wouldn't say warned, but
informed to keep your eye out. And before we knew
it, the way had been overtaken. I mean, just slam
and it was done.
It didn't affect us, even being as close as we were,
it didn't affect us too terribly much as far as
security was concerned. It stepped up our
activity quite a bit as far as CNC missions,
medevac, and the like.
We would take some incoming rockets and mortars at
night.
It's amazing how fast you can get out of a hooch and
into a bunker when you need to. You can almost hear
the mortars leaving the tubes in your sleep, so
you're halfway there before you wake up. We didn't
have any casualties from incoming. You weren't on
the ship at this time? No, we were in Fubai. Because
this was in, I can't remember exactly what the
dates are for Tet, but it's January or February or
something like that. We didn't go aboard ship
until March, I believe it was. So we were in Fubai at
the time. And we had
like I say, some CNC missions in the way and some
medevac. It was really sort of funny in a way, but
then again quite dangerous. One day we were going
in for a medevac and we got a call in and they told us
the approximate coordinates for the LZ in the city
of Way.
it was always a common practice of course the
grunts didn't hold up to it very well but if you
didn't know exactly where the LZ was the
helicopter would ask the radio controller on the
ground he would say pop a smoke pop a smoke grenade
and the guy on the ground was supposed to pop a smoke
grenade and then the helicopter pilot would
confirm the color of the smoke. Well, this radio
operator on the ground, we said, pop a smoke. And he
said, Roger, pop in a yellow smoke. And he threw out
a yellow smoke grenade. And there were five yellow
smoke grenades thrown out in the city of Hue. So,
you know, that's why the practice is to throw out
the smoke and then you ask what color it is or
whatever instead of saying what color you're
going to pop. It's which of those five are you going
to land at? And it was quite scary, you know. Some of
these guys on the ground, if they don't know what
the procedure is, could really wipe somebody out.
What did they end up doing? Well, we asked him to pop
another smoke and not say what color it was. No, we
didn't ask him to. We just flat told him to. And we
took a little fire on the way in, but, you know, from
the surrounding area, but we made a safe in and out
trip. You mentioned that y'all called it the Huey
Offensive. You weren't familiar with the Tet
Offensive that that was a day before the Hue
Offensive that happened in Saigon. Were you all
familiar with it at the time? At
my position in the rank and file, no. I would
imagine possibly that our squadron commander
knew about it or whatever.
The ordinary pilots and the ones who were not
involved in intelligence and the like didn't
really have any knowledge of it until afterwards.
The way was right there, and that's all we were
concerned about. Did you observe any kind of
changes after the Huey offensive
in strategy, military strategy? or what not? The
whole pace of the war seemed, war, conflict seemed
to pick up. And it's sort of hard for me to say since I
was not directly involved with anything in
S2, which is intelligence.
It's hard to say actually
what changes there might have been because, like I
say, in March we went aboard ship, which changed
our whole strategy and tactics anyway.
But then again,
There was a whole lot more activity. The Army was
brought into that northern area. Khe Sanh fell. We
were quite involved with Khe Sanh. We would have
C&C and medevac patrols up there all the time, our
squadron. And the Army moved into Khe Sanh, and
later on Khe Sanh fell. And so I'm
sure that all that was a direct
result of the way offensive, or Ted offensive, as
such.
What impact did the press have on, in your opinion,
the outcome of the war? or the people back home? And
did you have any contact with the press at all? Did
you ever see any journalists or anything while you
were in Vietnam? There was one time when we had
some kind of a large insert, a troop insert that we
were involved with, that I heard that there was a
journalist going to make the trip. But I did not see
the man personally, and I don't know whether
he conducted interviews with any of our people or
not. If he did, it wasn't known. He may have
interviewed some of the soldiers that were put in
or whatever, but I didn't have any contact with him
at all. As far as impact of the press on the Vietnam
incident, it's hard to say. With the news media
being this up-to-date and on top of everything the
way they are now versus, say, like in World War I,
World War II, everybody knows almost before it
happens what happens. And I'm sure it was quite...
disarming to the
family and loved ones back home of the men in
Vietnam hearing every day that so many had been
killed and so many had been wounded and trying to
show the score like a football game as to who killed
the most that day. You can't really build morale on
that, I don't believe. Do you think that was an
effective way of telling how the war was going, who
killed the most? Was that an effective measure?
No. It's hard to say what would have been an
effective measure for Vietnam. The way it
actually turned out, nobody won and everybody
lost.
I'm sure there would have been different ways for
things to have been handled. I don't know what. I
mean, who can second guess politicians and
everything? Politicians have always cracked my
ass anyway in the fact that they're more concerned
about their Democratic Party or their Republican
Party than they are about the American people and
the American nation as a whole. to do anything for a
damn vote. Do you think the politicians had an
effect?
What kind of effect do you think they had on the
outcome of the war? Well, I think they loused it up.
It was a loused-up situation to begin with. But as
far as... I don't know. Public opinion had a lot to
do with... with the outcome of the war, if
everybody had not been afraid of making a
decision, be it right or wrong, and going ahead and
made a decision somewhere earlier in the game, I
think it could have been ended a lot sooner and to
our benefit. But everyone was afraid of what the
other guy was going to think about it. It was a
waste, a total waste. I'm proud to have served for
my country, and I did what little part I did, but it
was a farce and injustice. You referred to before,
first you said the Vietnam War, and then you change
it to rather the conflict. You seem to be reluctant
to call it a war. Is that because we didn't declare
war? Right. Nobody wants to call it a war. They were
afraid to declare war. It's sort of related to the
Korean incident or conflict or whatever. It takes
an act of Congress to declare war, but then again
they can send all the young men of the country over
to sacrifice their life and limbs. and think they
can get by without calling it a war. But if they had
gone ahead and declared war, I think we could have
won it. Do you think we should have, LBJ should have
called in the reserves?
I don't think the reserves would have had any
effect on it. He had plenty of resources to use
without the reserves if he would have just used the
right resources. Okay.
Do you have any opinion about a certain way we
should have gone about it in order to win the war?
How could we have won? Any particular way? You
might have done things differently. No, no real
strategies or anything like that. I'm not a
strategist or the like, but just needed to go in and
kick ass and get it over with. Like I say, they had
all
the technology and the firepower and the manpower
to do something about it, but they'd take one step
forward and two steps back, and you can't win by
doing like that. What kind of feelings or what kind
of welcome did you have when you went back home as
far as the anti-war movement? Was it going on at the
time? How were the veterans treated? when they
returned?
Well, I come from a small town. And everybody
pretty well knows everybody. Of course, my family
welcomed me back with open arms. But I'd walk down
the street, and the general people would act like,
well, you've been gone away for a while. What you
been doing? And I'd say, well, I just got back from
Vietnam. Oh, really? You know, big deal. They
really didn't give a damn if I was in Vietnam or next
door or what.
There was no real antagonism towards me or where
I'd been or what I'd done, but there was no moral
support in saying, boy, I'm sure glad you're back.
I'm sure glad you went over and did your job and all
that. people didn't seem to give a damn. As far as
anti-war movement was concerned, I didn't really
notice any. Anytime you have anything like that,
you're going to have some, but
the major portion came later on, like with Kent
State and the like. At the time that I was in, it was
very negligible.
But it really did right my ass that people just
didn't really give a damn. You think the vets were
looked down upon for maybe what the American
people saw on TV? Did they blame y'all?
Did you get any of those kind of feelings? I didn't
personally. Like I say, I'm from a small town, and
things like that don't get developed quite as
much. But
there were a number of vets that did get frowned
upon, evidently, according to the media and the
like later on. But I think a lot of that's brought on
by the vets in the fact that, like I was mentioning
earlier, they think the United States and society
owes them for what they did, which I totally
disagree with. Okay, how much of a disruption did
the war have on your family relationship as far as
not seeing your daughter until nine months after
she was born with your wife? What kind of effect did
that have on you?
There was more of an effect between me and my
daughter than... my wife and I.
There was no problem between my wife and I. I think
there was a little bit of, and probably still is, a
little bit of a problem between my daughter and I,
even though it's hard to put your finger on it. I
came back from Vietnam. She was nine months old. I
didn't get to go through the latter stages of
pregnancy or the birth, the first few weeks and the
first few months with her just becoming a person.
And when I got home, she was a nine-month,
what can you say, crying machine. And it got to me at
times. I
hate to say it, but I'm sure somewhere along the
line I've sort of maybe held that against her a
little bit. Who did you hold it against? Well, I
held it, I guess, against my daughter in the fact
that here I was coming back from Vietnam
wanting some peace and tranquility in my life. And
she was there
to, I guess you might say, come between my wife and
I. And
I hope I haven't harmed her. I've tried to make up
for it. But then again, I believe Somewhere in
there, there's got to be some repercussion of my
coming back showing, and I'm sure I did, show some
animosity towards him. Do you have any particular
bitterness towards any politician, a president
maybe, or any other person to this day as a result of
the war? Do you carry any bitterness with you?
Well, there's a certain degree of bitterness, I
would say, but I can't really pinpoint it on any
person or administration.
Something like that was an error on everyone's
part. And
in order to say that any one person or the like is at
fault would be an injustice on my part because I'm
in no position to say